Hello this is Kirill from Forex boat dot com.
And welcome back to the course in forex trading and today's tutorial.
We will talk about the forex calendar.
So to find one of the best first calendars to go to Google and type in Forex factory calendar and as
you can see it brings up a calendar here and we're going to open up that page forex factory is a forum
for forex traders and they also provide news and other cool stuff.
Here you've got a calendar for the week where you can change your time period here if you want to.
But by default it's said to the current week.
And as you can see the week started with Sunday that there was a previous Sunday November the 30th.
And for every day all Sunday is not not really the best day to look at.
So we'll start off with Monday because that's actually a working day.
So for every day they've got the news that is Jew in the world like for example Spanish Spanish manufacturing
PMI or net lending to individuals m slash m or a montri base.
Why why and cash rate and all of these they are specific to a certain country.
So on the left here it will tell you what currency pairs affected and usually and 99 percent of the
cases it is actually the currency pair that is local or domestic to that country.
So here you've got the Australian dollar and a euro.
The Swiss franc British pound as you can see quite a lot of news is coming out there.
And so the current time is actually shown at the top over here and over here as well.
And here you've got the time when that news will be released in that same time zone.
I'm pretty sure if you log in into their website then you'll be able to change the time zone to your
time zone.
But by default I think it's set to the New York or us tee time zone so you can play around with that
.
What else do we have here.
You've got some details so you can click on the detail if you want and it'll bring up some information
specific to that piece of news.
So for example the manufacturing PMI for Great Britain you can read about it here and you can understand
that Perche PMI sense of Purchasing Managers Index you can see when the next release is some notes some
very useful information basically some related stories from financial reviews the history of how it
changed and so on then you can just close that if you don't want to see it.
And then finally you've got the values over here which are the most important part.
So the first value is the actual This is in fact what the value was when the news was released.
Then you've got the forecasts and you got the previous.
So by reading this manufacturing PMI for great Britain we can see that the previous value was fifty
three point three.
The forecast for this time for this Monday was fifty three point one.
But when the time came and the news was released it was actually fifty three point five.
That's why it's highlighted in green meaning that this outcome was much more favorable than expected
for traders.
That means that apparently the economy's doing well and the British pound is probably going to grow
you have to kind of also gauge how this news affects your currency and that you can see here under usual
effect.
So if actual is greater than forecast it's good for currency.
So in this case it was good for the British pound dollar.
Also you can see that this news is highlighted for red factory.
I can meaning that the impact is a high impact and therefore if you put all of this together the outcome
was more favorable than the forecast.
It's good for the currency it's a high impact so probably the British pound dollar or experienced a
increase in value at this point in time when this news was released.
So if you see something that's red it's fun to read one that's that's high impact.
Here's another one.
So the British pound construction PMI was released on Tuesday and the outcome was less than the forecast
of fifty nine point four versus six to one point one.
If you expand this you'll see here that the actual actual is greater than forecast is good for currency
.
In our case actually is less than forecasts meaning it's bad for the British pound dollar.
And we can see a red.
I can hear meaning that it's a high impact piece of news meaning that the British pound probably would
have lost value.
It's not always the case.
Sometimes things happen that you don't expect but in most cases it does stay in line with the recommendations
that are given on Forex Factory.
So we just got to scroll down a bit lower and I'll show you today's news.
So here because we're in Friday December the 5th.
You can see that right now the times around 3:00 a.m. actually just past 3 a.m. It's 3 or 5.
But I opened this page at 3:00 a.m. So at that time this piece of news for the Swiss franc hadn't been
released yet.
And it says here foreign currency reserves.
As you can see the previous value was four hundred sixty point four billion.
There's no expected value sometimes there's nothing that they can specify here.
And in order to find out the current value you just have to click the refresh button because we were
we are so close to the release of the news I'm going to click it and see what will come up.
And as you can see that's the current value is literally released like two or three minutes ago into
the world news so you can probably find it on the website of the associated central bank and so on.
So their foreign currency reserves increased by two billion dollars which is probably a good thing.
You can also check here.
But once again we don't have a forecast so there's nothing to compare it to you can only compare to
the previous value and I don't really know if that's that's a very good thing or should have increased
much more.
So you'd have to find the forecast somehow yourself.
As you can see this news hasn't been released yet and that's because the time hasn't come for it to
be released.
Also something that we'll talk about in the further tutorials of this section today is the first Friday
of December.
And every first Friday of every month the U.S. releases non-farm employment change and unemployment
rates for the month.
And those are two major pieces of news.
We'll talk about them in the future.
Tauriel I look forward to seeing you then.
And until next time happy trading